All right, so now that we've
learned a little bit about forms,
let's do a little segue and
talk about modals.
So this is an example of
what we want to get to.
Basically what I want us to do is have
a add a color screen button, which will
open a modal and the modal will have a
form where you can enter the color screen.
Press Submit and it will add the color
screen at the top of this list.
That's basically the end goal,
that will be the last exercise.
But in order to get to that, we actually
need to do the modal thing first and
I've added this as a separate section,
because adding a modal requires
editing of route navigation, so
there's a little bit going on there.
Now, let's look at this little tree
view that I next one react navigation.
So this is basically
what we want to get to.
But currently, we have these three,
we have the main stack and
then we have which we just
called stack at the moment.
And this has two screens, it has the home
screen and the excess detail screen.
Now what we want to do,
is actually we have the RootStack and
we have home and detail screen.
What we're going to do is we want
the RootStack to have to like sub stack we
want to have a main stack and
a modal screen.
So you can think of these as how
the screens are presented to use,
it's kinda like a tree-ish view.
So in order to have a modal, we need
to actually modify our stack layout.
So we could have, add these MainStack and
the ModalScreen in between.
So you can reference these
react navigation docs for
how to do it, because we're basically
following exactly what's here.
Right, so to get started,
let's rename our stack to RootStack.
So let's go to App.js, close on
where the things are going on here.
So let's rename this to RootStack, and
then rename it to RootStack here, as well.
And save make sure nothing's broken.
All right, now what are we doing now?
All right, so
next we're adding a MainStack.
So I think I forgot to add this line,
but underneath here, we have another one
called MainStack and
we create another StackNavigator.
So now to reference we're creating
this one and this one and
notice that we're creating the ones that
have kinda two prongs going out to them.
Now we're going to create
a MainStack screen.
Just gonna copy this code here.
Right, so this is the screen.
Notice that this is in a navigator the
same way this was already in a navigator
and I've pretty much just
copied what was already here.
So I've copied the content of what we
currently had our entire stack and
copied it into our main stack.
Next we want to update our app component
to use a RootStack and a MainStack.
So I'm gonna copy this here.
[SOUND] Alright, so
have a MainStack here.
And this is where we can also add a modal.
Yeah, we need so
one thing to note is that,
we need to have headers shown
false here for example.
Because if we didn't, we would get
two headers, because we're going
to add a modal here and
we want the modal to have its own header.
Whereas because this RootStack has its
own StackNavigator, it gets a header.
So, that's something to be worried
of when you are listing this things.
All right, and now we should add a modal.
Let's create a new file called
ColorPaletteModal and
add it to our screens directory.
Well, I'm gonna type this in cuz I have so
far.
Let's do hello world,
import React from 'react'.
If you type this enough,
you could do it in your sleep Input {View,
Text} from "react-native".
And we do const ColorPaletteModal.
And return a.
View.
With some text.
And finally we export it.
Notice that the cool thing is that this
component, even though it's a modal,
it looks the same as all other components.
We don't need to add any special
configuration which is quite nice.
But that is also why is quite handy to
separate your components and screens.
Just so you know that's like you yourself
will know that the screens will have
the navigation props,
whereas the components won't.
Now finally, the thing what
we wanna do is we want to add
the new pallet modal into our
App.js into the RootStack.
So let's go to App.js and let's import it.
So import,
ColorPalettesModal from screens.
And we want to add a screen for
ColorPaletteModal next
have the RootStack one.
The main one, so I'm basically I'm just
gonna copy this code ColorPaletteModal.
We do want the header and
this should be colorPaletteModal.
Did I wrong, okay, screens not screen.
Palette.
[LAUGH]
Okay,
typo, I turned intelligence
often now I'm regretting it.
Cool, so now it's all wired up and
all we need to do is start interacting.
All right, so in order to do this, we need
to just add a little button somewhere, so
we could press it and launch the modal.
So let's go into our home,
which is in here.
And let's add a ListHeaderComponent.
And in this ListHeaderComponent,
let's do a TouchableOpacity.
And let's do a Text inside, Launch Modal,
it's an import, TouchableOpacity.
And text.
Cool, so now we've got a little button and
we need to do it onPress.
So in order to launch the modal.
We can just use the navigation prop again,
which is kinda neat.
So we do navigation.navigate and.
There you go, so the cool thing about it,
is that the way we navigate is
actually the same between modals and
just going into different screens.
So all the difficult thing about
how to launch it was in the App.js.
So to recap, so
this is now our root component.
We have a RootStack that has two screens.
One of the screens is our MainStack.
And to the screen is our Modal.
And a MainStack we have our home and
our ColorPalettes.
Now, the good thing about it is that,
now that you have this set of ones,
if you need to add any subsequent
modals you can just add them here.
You don't need to do this dance again.
So, the question was how to properly
handle the exhauster dependency warning.
From use effect, and
that is because if you
have the hooks es lint rules turned on,
and you go,
and you think it's going to be here so
yeah, so here,
if you have hooks exhorted
dependencies turned on.
Then anything you use inside here, it will
tell you that you have to add it in here.
We're not sure how to go around it other
than ignoring it, I personally don't
have the hooks, these also dependencies
turned on for this reason.
Because I feel like they
are quite flawed and as in,
they don't account for all use cases.
I had a particular thing
where I was building a chart,
that was actually on the web, we're
building a chart, a quite complex charts.
And we turned on
the exhausted like adding,
we added all the hooks ESlint rules.
And they also fixed adding all
the parameters into useEffect.
I'd actually broke our application and so
it's kind of like you have to either
be mindful and disable them yourself.
Yeah, basically,
you have to be mindful and
not to use the ESlint rule or
just disable them as needed.
>> I had a question about that.
Looking at the navigation tree, trying
to figure out why did why did we set
up a tree of NavigationStacks
versus just keeping it flat?
Would you be able to accomplish
the same thing within a single stack.
>> Well let's see what happens.
So if I put this
ColorPaletteModal in here instead.
Yeah, so it launches, but
it launches as a page, not a modal.
So the reason that we added it is because
we want the bottom up modal experience.
And if I added it here,
then it's just another screen.
The only way we can
distinguish between a modal and
a screen is notice that here we're doing
mode= 'modal', which is that anything
that we add will be added from the bottom
up, which makes the modals work.